---
slug: genesis-38-40
title: Genesis 32-34 & Psalm 12
authors:
  name: Adam Liechty
  url: https://github.com/adamliechty
  image_url: https://github.com/adamliechty.png
tags: [journal]
---

The Judah/Er/Onan/Tamar story is definitely strange, and I've heard colorful conclusions about the story's meaning jumped to in the past.

This time I tried to pay attention to repetition to see if anything popped. NASB gives some help about where English translation is sometimes smoothing over repeated words.

1. Judah "went down" from his brothers to find his wife
2. Er, Judah's firstborn "was evil in the sight of Yahweh, so Yahweh took his life."
   No explanation about what he did that was evil.
3. Judah tells #2 Onan to perform his duty to "raise up a seed" for his brother.
   This is the command in Deuteronomy 25:5-10; if not followed, the widow was to spit in his face and publicly shame the brother.
4. Onan knew that "the seed would not be his" so he spilled "on the ground" so that he would not "give a seed" to his brother.
5. Onan "did evil in the sight of Yahweh, so he took his life also."
6. Judah doesn't honor what would be codified in Deuteronomy 25:5 for #3 Shelah and eventually
   Tamar seems to be vindicated.

"Went down" / "on the ground" contrasts with "raise up a seed." Er, Onan, and Judah all fail with increasing details given, and Tamar gets a strange honor at the end. Given Judah's role in the messianic line and the focus on "the seed" it feels like the plot conflict is that the seed (tying back to Genesis 3:15) is not going to be "raised up" due to the moral failure of 3 men, so a woman steps in and makes it happen. Was that the "right" thing to do? The narrator doesn't tell us, but the plot conflict gets resolved, and their son Perez ends up an ancestor of the Lion of the tribe of Judah.
