---
slug: numbers-14-16
title: Numbers 14-16 & Psalm 44
authors:
  name: Adam Liechty
  url: https://github.com/adamliechty
  image_url: https://github.com/adamliechty.png
tags: [journal]
---

The ordering of commands and narrative today messed with me. I was enjoying the bit about the violet thread at the corner of the Israelites’ clothes as a reminder to see with the eyes of heaven as they went about their day-to-day. A little thread of tabernacle for every member of the kingdom of priests. Anachronistically, this feels a bit “democratic”. Probably a lot more beauty for me to think about there...

But then comes the rebellion of some of the Levites, and it feels like they are using this symbolism with the violet threads that brings a bit of tabernacle to everyone, to cause trouble. Do they feel threatened that everyone gets some purple thread when the Levites were supposed to be special? Are they jealous of the priesthood and Aaron and Moses, a subset of the Levites (that seems to be what they are saying more directly)? Whatever it was, they are clearly not happy with their place in the ordering of the nation, and it seems like the symbolism of the violet threads for everyone set them off.

Whatever happened with the judgment of the sons of Korah, some must have survived, since many of the Psalms are attributed to the sons of Korah.

RE: “third and fourth” generations. Literally in Hebrew, it’s “to the third and fourth” (“generation” implied, but not there literally). “3...4” is a Hebrew turn of phrase, something like “a few” or “as much as needed” and shows up even in poetic couplets like Proverbs 30:18.

The handful of generations should be compared to the “thousands of generations of those who love me and keep my commandments” who receive the Lord’s steadfast love (gracious, compassionate, slow to anger, abounding in steadfast love). Sometimes people repeat their parents’ mistakes/rebellions for a few generations, but the Lord’s steadfast love is orders of magnitude greater than the effects of those.
