---
slug: genesis-32-34
title: Genesis 32-34 & Psalm 10
authors:
  name: Adam Liechty
  url: https://github.com/adamliechty
  image_url: https://github.com/adamliechty.png
tags: [journal]
---

Translation hides the fact that "angel" is just the word "messenger."
Messengers of God meet Jacob, and Jacob sends messengers to Esau. God
meeting Jacob will parallel Jacob meeting Esau.

It struck me that Jacob's plans to send gifts ahead to Esau ("And behold,
[Jacob] also is behind us") the day before he meets him is with the
reasoning in fear: "Then afterward I will see his _face_; perhaps he will accept
me." But then, following the wrestling with God, he says "I have seen God _face_
to _face_, yet my life has been spared."
("But he himself passed on ahead of them") on his way to his brother. Even
though he sends his family in reverse order of his own favoritism, he puts
himself last by going first, maybe with some new boldness that if he can see God
face to face and be spared, maybe he can see Esau's face and be spared.

That resonates with some deep need for wildness. I'd rather have God hold my
shoulders and give a firm shake to get my attention than to be gently ignored.

The episodes of preparing to meet and actually meeting Esau is separated by
wrestling with God. You can feel the suspense as he's by himself awaiting the
reckoning with his past, which is when God shows up to Jacob. To me it felt
like a constrast with Abraham's two covenant encounters with God (15 & 17)
separated by disastrous mistreatment of Hagar (16) who herself gets a visit from
the messenger of Yahweh.

In other random thoughts, I've long held that America is not a "Christian
nation" because it confuses worldly power for the self-giving way of Jesus. And
I do think it's vital not to read America into the Bible, or ancient Israel,
and certainly not the church.

But today I wondered, with the confusion about who we are as a country, whether
there is a place for envisioning America hopefully as patterned in its
architecture after a Judeo-Christian Exodus structure whose pluralism is
inherent in that patterning itself.

1. Judaic: Founded on laws that order society for a common good and protect
   the quartet of the vulnerable: widows, orphans, foreigners, & the poor.
2. Christian: Founded on a belief in a new way to be human (where real power
   is in serving) and pluralist because that new way to be human speaks for
   itself without coercion.
3. A nation of Exodus: Simultaneously a people set free, a refuge for those
   seeking liberty, and a body infected with injustice in need of constant
   reform.
