---
slug: exodus-10-12
title: Exodus 10-12 & Psalm 20
authors:
  name: Adam Liechty
  url: https://github.com/adamliechty
  image_url: https://github.com/adamliechty.png
tags: [journal]
---

Regarding the exclusion of foreigners from Passover, a couple ideas...

1. It notes that a foreigner can be circumcised with his household and then “come near” (temple language) and observe Passover.

2. Passover marks the beginning of the new calendar before they head to Sinai and enter the covenant. That covenant begins with ten “commandments” (literally “ten words”), the first of which is “I am Yahweh your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery.” Passover is the divine rescue that is the basis for the covenant, so only participants in the covenant can observe it.

There is a case to be made that Jesus gave Communion as a Passover parallel (he called this ritual meal a new covenant, and the timing...), Paul treats it seriously, and we rightly give it reverence. It’s open to all, but only after joining that covenant, same as for Passover.

Lev 10:10 to Aaron (priests) “You are to distinguish between the holy and the common.” Practicing distinction is essential to priesthood. Radically, Israel is also to be a kingdom of priests, and even more radically, apparently foreigners can join, if they take the terms of the covenant.

Just as the Passover was an unconditioned gift to redeem Israel that led to a covenant with conditions (but open to all who will accept them), Jesus’s sacrifice is an unconditioned gift that leads us to a new covenant, open to all who will accept the terms of his new covenant.
