---
slug: genesis-46-47
title: Genesis 46-47 & Psalm 15
authors:
  name: Adam Liechty
  url: https://github.com/adamliechty
  image_url: https://github.com/adamliechty.png
tags: [journal]
---

70 people from the house of Jacob (numbering the men) come to Egypt who will become a new nation out of the 70 nations divided at Babylon.

It "rhymes" with Deuteronomy 32:8-9:

> When the Most High gave the nations their inheritance,<br/>
> When he separated the sons of adam,<br/>
> He set the boundaries of the peoples<br/>
> According to the number of the sons of elohim.<br/>
> For Yahweh's portion is his people;<br/>
> Jacob is the allotment of his inheritance."

Note: Some translations [incorrectly](https://www.logos.com/grow/sons-of-israel-or-sons-of-god-in-deuteronomy-32-8-9/) say "according to the number of the sons of Israel."

The table of 70 nations after the tower of Babylon is followed by Yahweh calling Abram out as the start of a new nation. Now, his descendants are nominally 70 as the response to human (sons of adam) and divine (sons of elohim) rebellion and division, and the vehicle of future blessing of all those nations (Genesis 12:3), but not the sons of elohim (Psalm 82 6-8):

> In you all the families of the ground (adamah) will be be blessed

> I said, you are gods,<br/>
> And all of you are sons of the Most High.<br/>
> Nevertheless you will die like men (adam),<br/>
> And fall (niphalu, a verb form of nephilim) like one of the princes.<br/>
> Arise, elohim, judge the land!<br/>
> For you possess all the nations.

70 people is small next to 70 nations. Maybe this is part of why, along with Isaiah's suffering servant and of course Jesus being "lifted up" as king by being put on a cross of shame, it's natural for Paul to say:

> God has chosen the weak things of the world to shame the things which are strong, and the insignificant things of the world and the despised God has chosen.
