---
slug: 2-samuel-1-3
title: 2 Samuel 1-3 & Psalm 87
authors:
  name: Adam Liechty
  url: https://github.com/adamliechty
  image_url: https://github.com/adamliechty.png
tags: [journal]
---

The second Samuel scroll resumes with all the staples of a good story. Fighting, mourning, games of thrones, civil war, odd specifics of pursuit and hand to hand combat, revenge, and betrayal. But there seems to be more here that I can’t put my finger on. 

This seems to be one of those parts of the Bible that is doing something to me subconsciously; come for the movie, stay of the sermon... but surprise, the movie was the sermon, and I don’t understand how.

At least one thing that seemed to rise to the surface was the meaninglessness of the deaths in the civil war. The first 12 against 12 all quickly kill themselves similtaneously. A quick footed young man dies chasing down an experienced older man who finally gets everyone to cool it saying “Should the sword devour forever? Do you not realize that it will be bitter in the end?”

In ch1 an interesting word play: the Amalekite who reports to David the death of Saul comes with *dust* on his *head*, then dies with David saying his *blood* is on his own *head* because his own *mouth* testified against him. “Dust” is literally “ground” (Heb adamah) on his head subbed for blood (Heb dam) on his head. Anything going on here with Gen 4 and the “adamah” opening its *mouth* to receive Abel’s “dam” from Cain’s hand? Is this a hint that David’s judgment on him was not just?
