---
slug: genesis-1-3
title: Genesis 1-3 & Psalm 1
authors:
  name: Adam Liechty
  url: https://github.com/adamliechty
  image_url: https://github.com/adamliechty.png
tags: [journal]
---

I've spent a lot of time in the last few years learning about the ancient context
of the Hebrew Bible, and the ancient Near East worldview of the three-tiered
cosmos. It's now hard to not see it in Genesis 1 now. I've also learned maybe fifty Hebrew words and benefited from [un-translating](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ppkdrGStHxm9Q1sjj7qZwf3yqNkwGVU9sumD9LMMTPU) select words from Genesis
1-11.

What jumps out at me now is about the serpent (nachash) and the tree of knowing
good and bad. The nachash doesn't strictly utter any false propositions:

1. "Did elohim actually say, 'You shall not eat of any tree in the garden'?"
   It's just a question, not a statement.
2. "You will not surely die."
   She didn't die. No mention of consequences.
3. "For elohim knows that in the day you eat of it your eyes will be opened, and
   you will be like elohim, knowing good and bad."
   She is already like elohim (Genesis 1), and she would "know" good and bad,
   _experientially_

The nachash lies while uttering no technically false statements.
The nachash even uses language from Yahweh's command that Eve does not quote:

1. _surely_ die
2. _in the day_ you eat of it

The nachash never utters Yahweh's name, but always uses "elohim."

Eve _saw_ that the tree was:

1. Good for food
2. A delight to the eyes
3. Desirable for wisdom

And she _took_

Wisdom _is_ desirable and surely Yahweh wanted the humans to have it, so that
they could rule properly as his images. How were they intended to get it?
In the language of the narrative, maybe the tree of knowing good and bad _was_
the means of acquiring wisdom to judge between good and bad, but the proper way
to acquire it was to obey and not eat of it.
Was the tree guaranteed to give knowledge of good and bad one way or another?
Either through experience by eating of it in disobedience,
or through wisdom by obeying in trust? "The fear of Yahweh is the beginning of
wisdom" according to Psalms and Proverbs. Apparently the right way to "know"
good and bad is a process that starts with trusting and obeying Yahweh, whereas
seeing and taking can cause "knowing" it experientially, and painfully quickly.
