---
slug: 1-kings-20-22
title: 1 Kings 20-22 & Psalm 100
authors:
  name: Adam Liechty
  url: https://github.com/adamliechty
  image_url: https://github.com/adamliechty.png
tags: [journal]
---

When things are strange in the Bible, it’s a clue it might be important... what’s up with prophets cursing other prophets so that they are killed by a lion?

RE: the "lying spirit", this is a divine council throne room scene like the beginning of Job where Yahweh gets input from other heavenly beings. 

The similarities are that many heavenly beings are there with Yahweh ruling over them and that he raises a human as the topic of discussion, with someone proposing a course of actions to be taken against him.

The differences are that in Job, "the satan" (literally "the adversary" and translated as such in other places, but here often translated as a proper name 🤷‍♂️ ) is the other heavenly being in focus, whereas here in 1 Kings it is a non-specific spirit. In Job, the satan suggests harming the man Job after Yahweh extols him; here, Yahweh specifically asks for help enticing Ahab to go to battle so that he dies. In Job, the narrator directly sets the divine council scene; here, the narrator has the prophet Micaiah narrate a vision of this heavenly scene playing out. Here, there seems to be a tight alignment of obedience of the heavenly beings to Yahweh on the throne even though there seems to first be a debate about how to accomplish Yahweh’s goal of enticing Ahab. Interestingly, Yahweh approves of this divine lying.
